Man: This is single Fatou, take one.
[clapboard sound]
Ok, great.
[music plays]
Man: James, take 1
[clapboard sound]
Interpreter: “Okay so, right in front of me, right?”
Interpreter: She says,
“yes, 12 o’ clock.”
Carl: Do you want to give me a countdown?
Man: Yes. And, marker.
[clapboard sound]
Fatou: Well, to be real with you,
throughout my life,
I've seen that many people
don't have an understanding
of DeafBlind culture
and the DeafBlind community.
They think that all DeafBlind people
are entirely without vision and hearing,
when in reality there are
different ways to be DeafBlind.
There are many things that people have yet
to learn about DeafBlindness.
Ask and you'll know more.
[music ends]
David: Yeah, I think one of the largest
misconceptions about people with blindness
is that, “What do you mean? You're not blind!
You can see, you can see me right now.”
And it's like ‘Well, okay, yeah,
but I'm legally blind...” So,
you know, there's a big spectrum there.
And actually people come upon blindness
in various ways,
some very early on in life like me.
Others get it later in life,
and they've gone
large amounts of their life
with good usable vision.
Some person may have a very similar vision
on the doctors’ acuity chart
but may have different experiences.
Anne: I was accused of faking it a few times
and then I try to explain
the definition of blindness
and that if you put 20 blind people
in a room, they all see differently,
but chances are most of them
see a little bit.
Rocky: I think oftentimes
someone in the general public,
when they view someone who is DeafBlind
they oftentimes think of Helen Keller.
And indeed, Helen Keller was
a great example of someone
who is DeafBlind, and she provided
a lot of inspiration for a lot of people.
But she doesn't represent
the full community.
Sarah: A lot of people misunderstand, that
oh, when they see a DeafBlind person,
“oh, all DeafBlind Individuals
have the same needs.”
So all DeafBlind individuals read Braille,
or all DeafBlind
individuals are just like Helen Keller.
I am not Helen Keller.
I don't look anything like Helen Keller.
My life is nothing like hers.
Rocky: But she doesn't represent
the entirety of DeafBlindness.
DeafBlindness really is a spectrum.
[music plays]
Lydia: Septo-optic dysplasia means
that the optic nerve did not develop.
So my eyes are,
quote “normal,” as you could say.
It's just that
since the optic nerve is not developed,
I'm not able to use them to see.
Meredith: Charge syndrome is a series
of six different anomalies.
Some of us are fully deaf,
some of us can hear only a little.
I can only hear a little bit.
Rocky: I was diagnosed at infancy
with a condition known as Norrie’s disease.
It's a genetic condition
which almost always leads to blindness.
So I've been blind all of my life.
No vision, no light perception.
And then when I was about ten years old,
I began to develop a hearing impairment.
David: I really believe that
disability is a spectrum.
We're all in various states
of ability, whether it be
a visual disability, a hearing disability,
a cognitive disability
a mobility disability.
There's people who may not present and
have a quote unquote “hidden disability”
all the way to people
who have very profound disabilities
that are evident for everybody
to witness and take part of.
So whatever the case may be,
within each of those prevalence
types, there's spectrums and two people
with quote unquote "matching disabilities”
may present or behave very differently.
Why? Because we're all different to begin with.
So people with disabilities
are no different in that way.
Rebecca: You could have somebody
who is, again, culturally Deaf,
they're born deaf, they're raised
in like the deaf community,
maybe their family is deaf or, you know,
they go to school and it's a deaf school
and then they're progressively
losing their vision.
So they go from using sign language
to needing to learn tactile sign language.
Sarah: Within the DeafBlind community
some may rely on the
residual hearing that they have.
If you’re fully DeafBlind
then you would rely on tactile
and that is simply hand on hand
American Sign Language,
so I would sign using airspace
like American Sign Language, does
But it would be through a tactile sense
as her hand is on top of mine.
Rebecca: You have people who are born
into a hearing-sighted family
and they're raised getting cochlear
implanted at a very young age.
And they're given, you know,
whether it's a one-on-one educator
or it's an assistant
there's all different
types of educational assistance
you can get for a kid like that.
But you may have
somebody who has DeafBlindness,
but pretty much in their school-age years,
they're able to function
pretty well as like a mainstream kid.
Sarah: I really struggled in the beginning
with my Deaf identity.
I tried to navigate, you know,
because I felt like I was never hearing
enough, yet I was never deaf enough.
And so I kind of fluctuated
and kind of was stuck in the middle.
And I just really
did not know where I belong.
Fatou: When you're born
with Usher syndrome
your field of vision
gradually gets smaller and smaller.
Some people experience tunnel vision,
some have blurry vision, or have specks
or spots that impede their vision,
or reduced peripheral vision.
Anne: My brother and I, we both...
My brother has Usher Syndrome too,
my brother and I have
the same disease, the same gene.
We have different vision.
Carl: Annie’s vision is quite a bit
better than mine.
She’s almost six years younger than me.
Who knows why?
Maybe because she eats a better diet
or whatever.
Rebecca: When you say you're DeafBlind
you could be anywhere on this very large spectrum.
And the interesting thing
is, somebody who is DeafBlind
and is really raised in a mainstream world
and someone who is DeafBlind,
who is raised in the deaf world,
they are about as different
as anyone from any different community.
And being DeafBlind
does not even mean that you identify
with the entire DeafBlind world
or community itself.
[music plays]
David: Consider that the human condition
comes in every shape
and size and every ethnicity
and race and every
social strata; that is
people with disabilities.
People with disabilities are everybody.
They're our friends, they're our family,
our sons or daughters, our neighbors.
Really everybody.
Disability is the story of us.
[music ends]